---
layout: post
title: The great lockdowns of 2020
---

A conscious specie had evolved for thousands of years, gaining sentience, moulding insentient things for her own convenience. Like winning a race of containing entropy into consciousness, of course with support of everything on earth. But every now and then, the inanimate fights back, letting the conscious beings know they're just a tiny fraction of the same.

Whenever nature has exerted her power on humans, the crisis has paved way for a new trajectory of growth. The year 2020 was one such, the entire humanity was sent to a retreat by nature. To retrospect and think in solitude and dormancy, to look inside - backtrack. The time when highest percentage of people had access to information, and the genetic ability to comprehend and synthesise more. Tough, crazy. Answer the fundamental questions. Tougher.

I always wonder what has brought us here, what will take us forward, and/or what will cause our downfall.

We're all born the same way, crying, confused, naked, still tied with the umbilical cord. That cord virtually stays with us, nourishing, till we grow up to adulthood, as our parents protect us from harm's way all this while, they strengthen us physically and with values of love and compassion. The world seems all happy and optimistic, standing at the threshold of youth. When out there, The world ain't so easy you realise. It takes initial few years of failing and falling, but you get up, maybe throw a grimace, but always relearning how wrong you were to be assuming you knew it all. Like always, you learn. Not to repeat the same mistake again. Optimise your thought navigation for solution-ing. Do shit, backtrack, maybe document oh so well, so you check next time you're at a similar juncture. 

It's chaos. Today the populace is way way bigger and complicated than humanity has ever known itself to be, so still has to learn to handle herself. It started with survival of the fittest out there. Then we learnt, that by supporting and building with each other, we grow. That was the good part. Then we learnt by standing on other's shoulders, we grow faster, most likely crushing those underneath. But maybe there's a balance to be found there? Exclusion or Inclusion, thereof and for all? I'm coming to understand the innate thirst for growth and survival will help us strike a balance. We need each other for survival, maybe not so much for growth, because after a point we're slowed by the weakest link. So there's an ethical balance to be struck as well. Preserving core human values of compassion or progression, which side are you on? Kind of like a sinusoidal wave.

Things are not fair, honesty is not an underlying agreement everywhere. You find a reliable few with whom you can share the journey, exchange learnings, equip yourself better. They are your friends and if you're lucky to bump into her sooner, your lover. You learn the Game of life with them. Pick your goalpost, start shooting for it. In your tiny microsecond-esque  existence in the timeline of this universe, you'd have "lived", experienced feelings, seen and admired beauty, tasted cuisines, heard music, touched smoothness. Maybe that's the crazy and brilliance of life itself, so let's just celebrate being alive?